# Contributing

## Project Structure

### Directory Structure
The `src/` directory contains the library's source code. This is what is
compiled into the release file. Any header files that are not meant to be
exposed to users of the library should also be placed here.

The `include/` directory contains the library's header files. At the root of
this directory is `cedar.h`, which is the primary header file. All other
headers are located in `include/cedar/` to differentiate them from other
people's headers. This directory is meant to be included in projects using this
library.

The `docs/` directory contains documentation for this project. This
documentation is compiled and deployed via Jekyll to Github Pages.

The `examples/` directory should contain example programs that show how to use
the library through more practical examples.

The directory `out/` is generated by the makefile, and contains object files as
well as the resulting library.

### Branches
The project is divided into three development branches: `main`, `dev`, and
`experimental`. These branches are used to separate development streams.

The `main` branch contains the current stable release. Commits directly to
this branch should drive the current release closer to stability. In other
words, this branch should only be modified when a bug is fixed, documentation
is improved, or a new stable version is released. Changes to this branch should
only be revisions. The latest release should be updated to match the state of
this branch.

The `dev` branch is where active development of the next release occurs. Most
commits should go here, before being merged into `main` upon release. Changes
here are usually minor changes, however they can be a major change when a new
major version is nearing completion.

The `experimental` branch is where significant experimental development takes
place. This branch is where the next major version is tinkered with until it is
ready to be brought into active development, and is thus merged into `dev`.

## Improving Documentation
To improve this projects documentation, submit a pull request on the `main`
branch that updates files in `docs/` or `include/`, or the files `README.md` or
`CONTRIBUTING.md`.

## Bugfixes

If you discover a bug with this library and wish to fix it, first check Issues
to see if this bug has already been reported. If it has been reported, check to
see if anyone is assigned to the issue. If it has not been assigned to anyone
else, then you may assign it to yourself. If it has not yet been reported, then
create a new issue describing the bug, and assign it to yourself. If an issue
has been assigned to someone but has been inactive for more than a month, feel
free to ask for a status update.

Once you have fixed the bug, and are ready to merge your changes, first make
sure your fork is ready to be merged before you submit a pull request. Check
that the version number has been updated appropriately, and update the relevant
docs to mention this bug and which revision it was fixed in. This will be
removed at the next minor version.

Now, you can submit a pull request. Link the request to the issue, and describe
what you changed to fix the bug. You do not need to close the issue for this
bug; that will be done for you when your pull request is merged.

If you abandon a bug fix, unassign yourself from the issue.

## New Features

When you finish implementing a new feature, submit a pull request. Pull
requests for new features have some additional requirements which must be met
for the request to be merged.

- Your feature should be thoroughly documented
  - Each function, structure, constant, enum, global variable, etc. should
    have a comment documenting its functionality.
  - Your code should have additional comments explaining how it works.
  - You should add a well-documented example to the `examples/` folder or, for
    when appropriate, update an existing example.
  - You should document the outward-facing components of your feature
    thoroughly in a new or existing file in the `docs/` folder.
- Version numbers should be updated

## Versioning

This project uses SemVer.

## Pull Requests

When you're done making a change, submit a pull request. Your pull request
should broadly describe what it does in its title, and provide a summary of
the changes made in the description. Any relevant issues should be mentioned
in the PR.
